Submitted to Olin OSL 07/03/09

--------------------
ESSAYISH
--------------------
	As one would expect from an Oliner, I have diverse interests and heavy involvement in organizations both local and global. As friends and family have grown to expect from me, my interests are always in flux, and always straddling the border between scientific disciplines. Whether bridging the analog-digital divide, using the Arduino microcontroller platform and the Python scripting language to allow my computer to control my latest stationary robotics project, or applying my crossdisciplinary knowledge and passion towards electrochemistry or biological systems engineering, my projects always focus around providing an innovative fusion of ideas to ultimately benefit the world, my family, myself, or one of the many organizations I've found myself involved with. I wish to continue my efforts centered around increasing efficiency through decentralization (or, in some cases, centralization) of infrastructure and/or manufacturing.
	Throughout my future time at Olin, I hope to maintain my extensive involvement with the One Laptop Per Child foundation and to discover new organizations with which to get involved in as I leave behind my hometown, where over the past eighteen years I have served extensively with my school, church, and community. 
	I believe that my Olin education will lead to much personal growth. Specifically, I hope to garner greater appreciation for and knowledge of technical intricacies and system design. I also hope to conquer my deadline-oriented workflow, to hone my ability to communicate effectively with others, and have greater control over the direction of my studies. This personal growth will directly benefit me as, after graduation from Olin, I hope to find employment at a company where I can bring my creativity, problem solving skills and my crossdisciplinary passions to the table. 
	All in all, I look forward to pursuing my crossdisciplinary scientific hobbies, growing as a person, and continuing the community involvement which has so far defined me as a person.
--------------------
OUTLINE OF CURRENT INTERESTS AND PROJECTS
--------------------
OLPC
	OLPCinci repair center
	peripheral development
	telehealth module
	hardware development
chemistry
	electrochemistry
		electrochemical oxidation / aldehyde production
		chlorate productions
		chloralkali cell
	organic chemistry
		flavors
		staple medicines
	microscale industrial syntheses
		reagent prep
	energetic compounds
electronics
	power electronics
	communication and control
		see electrochemistry
		biological system engineering
infrastructure
	protocols
	hacker mindset
	exploitation
	suckless - simplicity is beauty
computing
	Linux
	python
	bash
	digital I/O
food
	sushi
	pancakes
	cheese
	mushrooms
--------------------
